I.
2 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The water supply is like a battery.
3 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It gives you a voltage difference between the 2 terminals.
4 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And because it said cartoon growing, it has infinite powers.
5 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It can provide infinite current positive or negative.
6 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
But it can also provide 0 current. It all depends on what the circuit wants.
7 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Register we discussed earlier the current and voltage relate to each other through owns law.
8 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, again, we are assuming that we are operating the resistor in a reasonable.
9 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Voltage range and current range because if you go crazy, it voltage and current some resistance. They will start hitting up melting down.
10 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You know, breaking up, so resistance will change as a function of temperature.
11 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
But right now we are, assuming that they are going to behave linearly, because we are going to be reasonable.
12 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so Delta we equals to it is the voltage difference. You have to keep that in mind.
13 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It is not the absolute voltage. It is. The difference between 2 terminals.
14 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, the voltage between the 2 terminals.
15 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
We started using the operation amplifiers in the lab as I mentioned it to you. This is a 5 terminal device.
16 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Operation amplifier.
17 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The lines around the operation amplifier are not circuit drawings.
18 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You know, when I'm driving these triangles, that's a component.
19 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It is not a wire that is drawn.
20 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
In a triangle with 5 other wires sticking out of it.
21 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
This is a component. Yes. People do make.
22 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Interesting mistakes, so I have to clarify it as much as possible. So if this is the case.
23 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
For example, if I have a water supply.
24 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Please see, I have a 9 voltage supply.
25 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Connected to a 1 on Resistor.
26 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How much time do I expect to run through this? 1? On resistance?
27 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Finance why okay, let's assume that the bottom is my reference.
28 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The bottom is my reference I said this is a 0 bolts, right?
29 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It's an ideal wire. So what is the voltage here on this corner?
30 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the voltage here on this corner?
31 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What does the voltage up here? What is the voltage up here?
32 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, what is the voltage difference that is appearing across this resistor Delta week?
33 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It is 9-0, right? We are.
34 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Measuring it from the top to the bottom.
35 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Because I am drawing my current in this direction. Okay let's call this.
36 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I1, so I want equals to.
37 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
9 walls -0 waltz, divided by.
38 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Delta V2 items are so I, is that you are.
39 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Which is well, that makes i1 equals to 9.
40 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so your partner decided that he is not going to measure.
41 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
In that direction is going to measure the current in this direction.
42 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And instead of calling it, I want this article, I, to.
43 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is i2 negative? Right? Because the direction of that arrow means something.
44 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The current flow has a direction it's like waterfall.
45 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, how would you do that? You would say that I, to.
46 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Equals to the voltage.
47 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Here 0-the voltage there.
48 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You go from the base of the arrow to the tip of the arrow, right?
49 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
-9 walls divided by 1 on.
50 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That it gets you a negative 9 amps. Is that cool?
51 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay. All right. Let's see.
52 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the current running through the supply in this direction? I'll call this. I tree.
53 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Can I apply all law to a power supply? It's an ideal supply. Doesn't have any resistance.
54 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, how can I calculate the current running through the supply? You guys are convinced that I won is 9 AMS.
55 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Where are these charges coming from? Right?
56 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, if there is, I want coming down like this.
57 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
This is also i1 does this mean that this is also.
58 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That means that this is also on 1, right? Because after going through the resistor, the current needs to continue.
59 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, I have a single loop here, so the current needs to loop around.
60 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That this is what we would call a closed circuit.
61 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
In order to get a flow of charges, you need to have a closed circuit because in this course the devices that we deal with.
62 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Will not store charge you will not store net charge.
63 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I should say so no net charged storage.
64 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, what comes in must come out that makes sense.
65 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Can I ask you another question? Okay.
66 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Let's assume that I have 1 on here.
67 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
To own here and 3 on here and I want to know the current flowing through each of these elements.
68 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How can we calculate this?
69 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay.
70 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Let's assume that here, I have a reference.
71 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That means that this voltage is here 0 volts right?
72 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, what is the voltage on this corner?
73 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, I have 9 walls.
74 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That is applied from this point to this point.
75 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How much resistance do I have between my 9 Volt point and 0 point.
76 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
6, why because I have only a single branch.
77 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Right. So if the current is entering from here.
78 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It needs to go through this register 1 on resisted and 2 on.
79 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And 3 home resistor, and it needs to return back to my supply rate.
80 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The current is common in all of these resistors.
81 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, let me call this. I not so, if that is the case, how does 3 and 4 release.
82 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
They are equal, so I not equals to. I want.
83 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It goes to, he goes to who's the iPhone.
84 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, I want to write the arms law for the 1st Resistor. I will call the delta V.
85 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
1, what is that? Do we want equal to.
86 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
On current times the resistance value, right?
87 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is my current I labeled it as 0.
88 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Right, no, but I want to just write it. I just want to write the formula for it.
89 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, it's 0, at times.
90 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Uh, what is the value for the R.
91 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, what about the delta V for the 2nd 1 I'll tell you too.
92 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The current is why not?
93 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What about the resistor value?
94 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, what about the 3rd 1. okay. I am writing it like this right?
95 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I am following the direction of my arrow. Like, my current is following in this direction.
96 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, I have the positive at the base of my arrow.
97 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
A negative at the tip of my arrow. This is called passive sign convention.
98 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So that's a victory.
99 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so if I go from.
100 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Starting from the 0 waltz here. What would you say? The voltages here?
101 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I start from 0, I increased my voltage by Delta v3 right?
102 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, that location is Delta v3. What is the absolute voltage here?
103 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It is Delta v3+V 2.
104 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Right because I had a voltage difference and I added another Walter's difference on top of it.
105 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the voltage up here in terms of the activities? Right? It was Delta victory.
106 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Plus now we're gonna add that the v1.
107 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, we went from 0 waltz to the 9 vault node.
108 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And said that it should be equal to the sum of all these voltage drops.
109 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Across these resistors make sense. So fine. Yeah.
110 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Hello.
111 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Hm.
112 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Positive sign means that it is higher, right?
113 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Of course, the can come out to be a negative number.
114 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
But Walter's difference is measured from positive to the negative from.
115 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That's the convention, so if I were to add these 3.
116 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That's what would that be equal to.
117 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It's going to be 6 homes.
118 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Units are very important. I not. And that is equal to.
119 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
9 waltz -0 loss, right? So, if that is the case, can you calculate? I not.
120 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, it's gonna be 3 over 2.
121 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay.
122 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Is it clear so far? Let's do.
123 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Instead of calculating it this way, let's calculate the equivalent resistance of the serious combination.
124 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How did we calculate the current resistance in a serious combination?
125 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, I'm gonna draw my circuit again. I'll say that this is 9 walls and this is my articles. So, how do I calculate my article?
126 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
There's nothing branching out. Everything is a single branch, right? So.
127 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It's going to be the sum of the resistors. Okay. 1 on.
128 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
+2 OEMs +3 homes, which makes.
129 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
6 homes. Okay. Let's calculate our. I not.
130 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That is the current that is running through this loop. What is the voltage difference across the equivalence resistance?
131 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
If this is my reference here, this is 0 volts, 9 walls and 9 walls here.
132 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
9 months across the register, so Delta V equals to 9 walls that is equal to times are equivalent right?
133 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, I notice then what 9 was divided by 6 homes.
134 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Did you work out the same way? Yeah.
135 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so far, so good.
136 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, let's change a little bit.
137 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You are asked to calculate this current I.
138 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How would you go about calculating it? What do we need to know?
139 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
To calculate the current in a resistor yeah, if we know the voltage difference.
140 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And the resistance, we can calculate that current.
141 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, what we want to know is this difference, right?
142 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Or I could just leave with, right because if I.
143 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Show the + and - and have the voltage there means that it is the difference between.
144 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
These 2 points, can you guys calculate this? 1?
145 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Why is it here? Why do the Walter just cancel each other?
146 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Charts the voltage levels, right? Potential that. Okay.
147 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Let's go through this step by step. I put a reference at the bottom.
148 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I don't have to, but I did what is the voltage of my reference?
149 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the voltage here? What is the voltage here?
150 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What about here? What about here?
151 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, what is the voltage defense react?
152 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, the current I equals to we X over 1:1:which is.
153 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Is it good?
154 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay easy. All right. Let's get harder than.
155 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I want you to remain quiet and solve this all by yourself.
156 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
1st, I would like to talk with.
157 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How is this different than the previous case? 1 of them is flipped.
158 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so if you assume that the bottom is your reference again.
159 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What does the voltage 0 walls on this call corner here?
160 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
On this corner here, top left.
161 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Upright negative 9.
162 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Why is that? Polarity is flipped.
163 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so what does it say for IV then? Right? Starting voltage.
164 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Ending voltage starting voltage is 9 walls ending voltages.
165 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
-9 volts divided by the resistance value, right?
166 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That makes 18.
167 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, what is the voltage drop across that resisted again?
168 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
18 months. Okay. So.
169 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
If I were to calculate the voltage drops.
170 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I'd say assume that I am looking at a voltage drop here.
171 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That's only 1 Delta.
172 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That'll be 3 if I go around this loop.
173 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And summing all the voltage drops.
174 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I would say that to be 1.
175 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Plus That'll be 2.
176 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That'll be tree I went from this point to this point from this point to this point and this point to this point.
177 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I sound old, the voltage drops. What should that be equal to.
178 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
When you go around the closed loop and you arrive in the same location.
179 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The voltage drops build at the 0.
180 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Let's do that to see if that is the case. What is my Delta? V1.
181 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Is it look at the polarity of my data v1 and the polarity of the supply.
182 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
All right look at this and look at this.
183 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So 1 is 1 negative 9 walls.
184 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is that v2? We calculated that.
185 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is that the way to 18 months? Right? We know the current 18 apps.
186 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What about the retreat? Is it.
187 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Is that true?
188 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
-9 volts +18 times 1 on that gives you what.
189 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
18 walts -9.
190 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Is that 0? Yeah.
191 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Uh, because the way that I am going, I am going from.
192 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
This point to this point, and I am calculated in voltage drop.
193 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
But the water is increasing, right?
194 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, if your voltage is increasing 9 walls, it means that the drop is negative. 9.
195 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And when you are going from this point here, at this point.
196 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The resisted does drop the voltage, right?
197 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, do you know what this is known as.
198 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Your costs because voltage law.
199 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Which means that in any closed loop, it doesn't matter which, which way if you arrive in the same location.
200 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You are at the same height, or are you are at the same voltage?
201 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
For example, if you go around campus, assume that we have some.
202 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
No hills and valleys and whatever.
203 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And then you are walking in any complex way that you, you walked.
204 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Sometimes go up a hill, you sometimes come down the hill.
205 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
But if you are in the same position, at the end.
206 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Your net change in height is 0, does that make sense?
207 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, it is a little to trivial with a single loop like this, but it helps when you have a complex situation.
208 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Yeah, so in every the drop will be negative.
209 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So many Mm hmm. Look at another example.
210 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It's calculates this current here called the sign ons.
211 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
If you want to use the kickoffs voltage law.
212 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
We will say we can sum all the voltage drops.
213 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And said it equal to 0 So assume that.
214 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I declared this point as my reference here.
215 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I don't have to, but I did.
216 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Starting from this point going here.
217 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How much does the voltage drop they get in 1 Walt.
218 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Because as you were going in our loop, we entered at the negative terminal, right?
219 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, it's negative 1, Walt. Okay. And then from going from this point.
220 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
To this point, how much did we drop in voltage.
221 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Again, we encountered a negative sign. 1st right?
222 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So the drop is negative 2 volts.
223 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Now, going from this middle node to the top right? Corner.
224 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How much are we dropping.
225 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Right. So we are dropping 5 volts.
226 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Posted firewalls drop. Now, we arrived here on the stop corner.
227 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And we want to go down here and we need to know this voltage drop here. Right?
228 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That Toby, I'll call this.
229 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So I say, plus we X.
230 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Because I went from the positive sign.
231 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, the negative sign, right? As I was looking this equals to.
232 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Did we arrive in the same point when we arrive here? Is there any voltage drop between this point? At this point?
233 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
No, it's an ideal wire, so it's equal potential. So, what is this equal to.
234 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
0, nice round number. It's a joke.
235 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Thank you.
236 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So we need to do some math here. What is in terms of find out.
237 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Look at the direction of the arrow or not, it goes in this direction, right?
238 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, it is going from the positive to the negative, right right.
239 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So we say we X equals to at times 2 homes.
240 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Because the direction of the arrow matches, the positive to negative, right? If it was reversed, we will put a negative sign.
241 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so we X is I not.
242 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Times jobs. So what is I not.
243 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What these add up to this is 2 walls, right?
244 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, I articles to what you need to throw that to the other side.
245 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And what what do I do? Do I do it?
246 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is negative towards divide by tombs? M.
247 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Units are extremely important if you're calculating a current and get units of voltage, it means that you made a mistake somewhere.
248 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And also order of magnitude is very important.
249 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
If somebody promises you, 100,000 dollars salary and gives you 100 dollars per year.
250 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You will be upset. All right.
251 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, it is not like, oh, it's just units. It means something.
252 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Are you good with this? Okay.
253 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, water supplies, ideal, water supplies, give you a voltage difference.
254 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It is not the absolute voltage. Does it make sense?
255 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, when we went up and around, we calculated a voltage what was the voltage here?
256 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
At this bottom corner here 0 walls, what is the voltage up here?
257 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Tools because the voltage up here.
258 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Was 1, Walt, this voltage here was 3 volts.
259 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Was it so we increased from 0 to 1 Volt, right?
260 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Then from 1 would be 1 to 3 volts.
261 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And from 3 walls, we went down to minus tools.
262 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Because of the polarity of that ideal supply, you can think of them as batteries.
263 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You know, when you have a TV reboot, you have the double a batteries.
264 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
We don't put them right? It doesn't work right?
265 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
1 has to go up there on us to go down now, is some of the batteries, but it looks like they're both point in the same way.
266 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
but basically what you are doing is then you are putting the two double a batteries in series
267 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Cool. So fine. Yes. Okay.
268 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
As you practice, this will become this natural. All right let's see.
269 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I have a 9 year old supply.
270 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And I have 2:1:on resistors. I want to know the current in the 1st results there.
271 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
2nd resistor and I also want to know this current here.
272 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And this current here.
273 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What do I do?
274 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Find the total current full resistance.
275 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Go step by step and I declare this bottom as my reference.
276 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Yes, we can 0 falls. What is the Walter chair?
277 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What's the voltage here? It's the voltage of here.
278 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Here here.
279 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Do you know the voltage difference between the 1st, 1 on register?
280 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, what is that to be 1? It's gonna be 9 walls.
281 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Minus firewalls 9 months.
282 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So you can calculate 1 yes.
283 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What does that want? How do I calculated.
284 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Voltage drop divided by the resistance. What about the 2nd, 1 i2?
285 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, if I want an i2 or 9 each, what is.
286 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
18 AMS why do you say that?
287 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You need to supply this I want current through the 1st resistance, right?
288 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I need to supply I took her through the 2nd resistance and where does this come from?
289 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You have some income, right? We cannot spend what you don't have.
290 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Into a balanced budget, you have to have income encourage.
291 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That satisfies the article.
292 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So you can say that I4 needs to be equal to.
293 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I for is the incoming current to this node here?
294 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It needs to equal to 1.
295 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I too. Does that make sense?
296 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, we've calculated I wanna 9:2:9 M +9.
297 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The answer is 18 X. so what is this known as.
298 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Kickoffs current law kirchhoff's current law says.
299 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Says if you have a node and you have branches coming out of it.
300 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
However, many and you have currents.
301 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Going out like this pointing out.
302 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Some of all the currents leaving.
303 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
As to be 0, in this case, I said, I focused I want plus I, too, because I feel is drawn as accurate. That is.
304 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Arriving there, I could have written that as instead of I could have said.
305 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I have a current here that I label as I not.
306 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Leaving that note, then you would say.
307 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I not plus i1+I too, because 0.
308 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Kick off current law saying that all the currents leaving that note has the sum to 0.
309 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Because I don't have any way to store charges. There there is the charge generation or elimination.
310 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
But I not in terms of i4.
311 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is it? Right? So.
312 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I not is just negative.
313 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I for cause, I flipped the direction of the arrow.
314 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Is that cool? Still too easy? Yes. Oh, man.
315 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Ask is 1 it harder. I know. 1 world.
316 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
1, on 2 homes, 3 homes.
317 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And say 4 walls, you.
318 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I would like to know is current here.
319 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What do you do cry.
320 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Don't cry every time.
321 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, and let's take a reference. Okay.
322 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
We pick a reference that's the rules.
323 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the voltage here voltage up here?
324 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the voltage down here on this bottom corner? What is the voltage up here?
325 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the voltage here? You need to confess.
326 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You don't know and if you don't know something, what do you do?
327 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Right away you labeled it with some thing like.
328 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And I know right we X and then you use the scariest thing that came out of Middle East.
329 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What does that algebra?
330 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Never heard of this joke before no, the scariest thing for a lot of students.
331 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so.
332 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Assuming that we can calculate.
333 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The different current I will label this 1 as I want and this 1 as i2.
334 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
You could say that i1+I not plus i2 equals to what?
335 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Now, can we calculate each of these currents.
336 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Using the, the voltages that I have labeled.
337 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
For example, what is starting voltage is what.
338 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
The ex, what is the ending voltage for.
339 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
That is my voltage difference right? Divided by the resistance value.
340 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the registered value? .
341 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What about I not what is my starting voltage?
342 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What is the ending voltage divided by.
343 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
+4 i2 starting voltage.
344 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Ending voltage divided by.
345 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
This needs to equal to 1 equation, wanna know.
346 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Can you do it? How do you do it?
347 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Can I multiply both sides with OEMs and what would that do.
348 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I canceled the homes from the denominator because I can multiply both sides by ohms. Right? 0 times owns is what.
349 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
0, okay so what do I have here?
350 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I have something divided by 1, something divided by 2 something divide by 3.
351 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Guys know, fractions those who did not know fractions.
352 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Did not arrive here, but they did arrive at. You can.
353 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Try to have a conversation with some of the math faculty you will know.
354 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, so what do I do? Not everybody has to know fractions. I mean, it's not the most.
355 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What do you guys need to know? What do I do.
356 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
I multiplied the 1st term by 8th term by.
357 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Turn my 2 that gets me what.
358 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
6 x -6 walls.
359 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
.
360 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
-0 walls +2 weeks.
361 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
-8 volts divided by.
362 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
6, it goes to 0.
363 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Yes, okay. Now.
364 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Can I cross multiply 6:2:dATA science that goes away then? Right?
365 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So, what do we have here? How many is Lucy?
366 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
How do you see? I see 6 X here.
367 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
3 weeks here and 2 weeks here, how much does it make.
368 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
11 okay, 11.
369 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Is the number it's a nice number.
370 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And then when we X equals to what? So we to.
371 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
But the question is not asking for, why did we do this? Because you can relate to the X.
372 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Was a joke too. Okay.
373 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
We X is what, what are we after.
374 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Why not? So, what is the X in terms of? What.
375 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Current times the resistance, so I think goes to.
376 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
We, that is equal to.
377 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Which is 7, 11.
378 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay.
379 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What did we do in this approach that we took.
380 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
What was the step by step? Technically used.
381 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
We chose the reference, right? Then we labeled.
382 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Unknown voltages then what did we do.
383 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Cost current law, which is some, all the currents leaving and all the notes.
384 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
To 0, in this case, we had only 1 note to calculate. So there was only 1 calculation.
385 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And what is this technique known as node voltage?
386 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Technique it works in very complex circuits, too.
387 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
If you are able to label the known voltages an unknown voltages, you can construct all these equations.
388 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
This was the ideal water supply, but there is also an ideal current supply.
389 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, just 3rd, ideal cure supply can supply any current regardless of voltage.
390 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
So the voltage can be 0, can be 1 can be negative 1. it can be negative infinity, positive infinity, whatever.
391 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Sometimes when I say whatever, it's serious as soon as 0.
392 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
It doesn't have to be 0, it can be 0, an ideal current supply will supply the current.
393 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
And we will do more exercises like this later today.
394 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Okay, if you have any questions I have office hours can walk with me.
395 "Gokirmak, Ali" (3436017152)
Thank you for coming Thank you.